The internet is a computer network that connects billions of devices across the world and these devices are called hosts or endsystems. All endsystems are connected through a network of communication links and packet switches. Different links have different transmission rates measured in bits/seconds. When a sending endsystem segments the data and adds header bytes to each segment, after which the packet is sent and reassembled by the destination endsystem.
A packet switch will take a packet from one of its incoming communication links and forward this to one of its outgoing communication links. The communication links and packet switches that a packet passes through from its sender to its destination is a route through the network. The most prominent types of packet switches today are routers (used in the network core) and link-layer switches (used in access networks).
End systems access the internet through ISP's which are themselves made up of packet switches and communication links. These ISP's can be residential, corporate, give WIFI to public places, provide cellular access to the internet, etc. These lower level ISP's are then connected to each other by higher level ISP's such as AT&T that have high-speed routers.
End systems, packet switches, and other parts of the internet run protocols such as the Internet Protocol (IP) and the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) which are the most important protocols on the internet and make up the TCP/IP. In these protocols there are standards that are adhered to that come from the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).
Services Description: another way to think abut the internet is that it connects applications to each other. These applications don't exist inside the network but they run on endsystems. These distributed applications communicate with each other over the network. If we write an application and we want it to communicate with another end system, we must follow some rules called a socket interface. This is similar to the rules of writing a postal address on an envelope when sending a letter.
All activity on the internet that involves two or more devices communicating is governed by a protocol that determines the standards for communication between these devices. A protocol defines the format and the order of messages exchanged between two or more communicating entities, as well as the actions taken on the transmission and/or receipt of a message or other event.