In case of a loss, this protocol is able to just send the lost packet by itself instead of the entire window like with go back . So instead of receiving a single cumulative ACK, the sender will now receive a window with ACK's as well which means that the sender has individual time outs for specific packets. The window will only move if we get ACK 0 and again when we get ACK 1, etc.
If packet 1 was dropped, we'd get the ACK 0 and both the receiver and the sender would move their window. If we lose ACK 1 and only get ACK 0, 2, 3, we can send packet 1 by itself again. Then when we get ACK 1, we move the window all the way down because we remember we already got ACK 2 and 3. So now the window to send will be {4, 5, 6, 7}.
With this protocol we need sequence numbers because we cannot have any overlap in the windows. Because if we send the window {0, 1, 2, 3} and ACK 0 gets dropped but the others don't, we would retransmit packet 0 and if we were reusing the same sequence numbers on the receiver side, it would think this is a new packet 0. So the reason that we now need double the number of sequence numbers as packets per window is that the receiver is no longer just expecting a single packet, but is expecting a window of packets that doesn't need to be in order.
Essentially go back is similar to this protocol but with a window of size 1 at the receiver end.
05 - TCP
The transmission control protocol is a protocol used to handle packages in the transport layer. It proves the key functions of reliability / ordering, flow control, congestion control, and connection management. Flow control means that when packages are sent to a receiver, these should not overwhelm the receiver. So the receiver should have enough capacity and resources to handle the packages coming in. Congestion control means that we don't want to overwhelm the network, so we need to send data at a rate that will prevent this from happening.
When we talk about segments, these are data units and they have a size (segment size) that is dependent on how much the link layer can handle, but typically is 1500 bytes.
This starts with the SYNC which is sent by the client to the server and indicates to the server that this client wants to set up a connection to later send potential data.